- [Teacher] When securing microservices in containers,
a lot of attention is paid to the runtime configuration.
However, we need to keep in mind that securely building
and sourcing images is just as important.
Images are built from instructions found in a Dockerfile.
These instructions add our microservice to the image
and configure it to run the service.
You can think of a Dockerfile
almost like source code for an environment.
Once the Dockerfile is ready,
it is built into a container image
which is similar to how developers compile the source code
for an object into a class.
When we are ready to run the image,
an instance of it known as a container is created,
and it is ran on the container engine.
If you're a developer,
this is like creating an instance of a class.
Just like classes in object-oriented programming,
you can use a class written by another developer,
you can build your own or a combination of the two.
Containers are the same way.
Typically when developers build their own image,
they start from one that is provided to them,
which is known as the base image.
Then for each instruction in their Dockerfile,
a new layer is added to the image.
Finally, when the image is ready,
it is built and stored in the registry
where it can be pulled and run as a container.
Now, let's layer some security principles
on top of all this.
First, it's very important that the base image
is an official base image provided by a trusted source
through a trusted repository.
Typically,
you'll be getting these images from major technology players
like Microsoft, Red Hat or official Linux distros.
If you pull an image from an untrusted source,
it is possible to introduce a malicious container
into your environment that has been planted by an attacker.
This is one form of a supply chain attack
where malicious code is inserted into the build process,
ultimately leading to a corrupt container
running in production.
Many organizations manage their own image registries,
and only allow their container platforms
to pull approved images from them.
They only permit official trusted images into the repository
and only allowed developers to add images
through the CICD pipeline.
Combined with effective security scanning,
this strategy effectively seals
where images can be sourced and introduced,
helping to prevent vulnerable images
from entering the environment.
Now, just because an image was deemed secure
at one point in time,
doesn't mean a vulnerability can't be found against it.
So here we're looking at a Red Hat Python image.
And you'll notice that
if we look at the latest version of the image,
it is secure.
Now, if we go back
and just take a look at the image 18 days ago,
you'll notice that a CVE was found against this image
or a piece of software that it uses.
Now, this isn't a knock on Red Hat,
it's actually very good that they're keeping up-to-date
with the vulnerabilities,
but it does create the need for users of the image
to follow it and make sure they're using the latest version.
Most providers of official images
will routinely update them
to address critical vulnerabilities identified in CVEs.
So it's important to follow them and stay up-to-date.
To ensure you're using the latest secure images,
the image registry should be scanned frequently
using an automated toll like Snyk
that detects potential vulnerabilities
related to an image.
This can help identify containers
created without a date base images
that have recently discovered CVEs
and vulnerabilities against them.
Typically,
this is fixed by rebuilding the image
with a new version of the base image,
and then redeploying the container
to replace the older instances
that are running with the vulnerabilities.
Another best security practice
is to choose a thin base image,
which limits the tolls it contains,
because it helps to reduce
the attack surface of the container
and it can limit an attackers options,
if they were to compromise a microservice.
Technologies like containers
place control of the entire stack
into the hands of developers,
who may unknowingly do the wrong thing.
It is important to establish good security practices
surrounding images that give developers the power
to deliver new microservices
while staying within some security guard rails.
To achieve this,
you may need to take a closer look at your toll chain
to ensure it supports new technologies
like containers and microservices.
Many of these technologies
have outpaced traditional security practices.